well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today we're gonna talk about
Bernie Sanders we're gonna buy what he
is and what he isn't in the United
States we have an amazing lack of nuance
when it comes to the discussion of
different ideologies and philosophies
because we are very very well trained we
have an acceptable discourse we have
this range that were allowed to debate
Democrats Republicans left and right
those are the extremes if you go a
little bit outside then you get the
Green Party and libertarians but it's
all right in that range now on a global
level when you're looking at ideological
perspectives and you're looking at it on
a spectrum those are right next to each
other they're not extremes they're very
very close together they're both
center-right we don't have a leftist
anything in the United States it doesn't
exist we have been conditioned to only
talk about this narrow narrow frame this
little window and those are the
philosophies that people are allowed to
have when you get outside that there's a
just amazing lack of understanding
Bernie Sanders often gets called a
communist and when people say that you
know Bernie Sanders is a communist what
I hear is I don't know anything about
communism or I believe Bernie Sanders is
a small government dude I'm willing to
bet the people saying this do not
believe that Bernie Sanders is a small
government guy communism is a political
and economic ideology political and
economic system that focuses on communal
ownership of the means of production can
be no longer ship of property there's an
exemption for your toothbrush don't
worry
and while the abolishment
of class money and the state do you
believe that Bernie Sanders wants to get
rid of the government probably not it's
probably not something you believe he's
not a communist and I know people are
going to say well what about Russia the
Soviet Union Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics was what's in the theory
referred to as a transitionary state it
was supposed to eventually become a
stateless that's the idea that's the
idea behind communism that's reflected
in their slogans you don't have a lot of
nationalism rolly it's not workers of
Russia unite it's workers of the world
unite
it's stateless he is not a communist
so what could he be he's often called
himself a Democratic Socialist maybe yes
maybe he is but even if that's what he
really believes deep down maybe he
understands that there's the way you
want things to be and the way things are
are those the policies that he advocates
for democratic socialism requires
democracy to regulate the socially owned
means of production that means society
as a whole
owns all the companies they own the
means of production the profits from
those companies Society owns those two
there's no shareholders they're
stakeholders everybody owns a piece of
every company coca-cola coca-cola their
profits would be used for society as a
whole not the shareholders given the
fact that Bernie Sanders often talks
about taxing profits he's an early
democratic socialist is he because if he
was well he'd want
it is not a Democratic Socialist at
least not in the policies that he
espouses there are a whole lot of people
out there who understand that the way
things are are too far from the way they
want them to be so they don't advocate
for the entirety of what they truly
believe at least not openly or at least
not they may advocate for baby steps to
get there more reformists than
revolutionary then you have social
democracy now what is that that is the
belief that there should be economic
interventions to promote social justice
and liberal policies and it operates
within a capitalist economy that's that
that that's Bernie Sanders so what he is
he's a social democrat social democrats
and democratic socialists it sounds the
same it's not there's that whole market
socialist system that occurs in the
Democratic Socialist ideology that does
not exist in this social democrat won a
lot of pundits use the terms
interchangeably they're not not really a
lot of people will argue that social
democracy is a step towards democratic
socialism yeah maybe maybe I'd go with
that
that sounds fair and then some people
would argue that democratic socialism is
a step towards communism so then it's
fair to call them a communist right no
not really because you can do that with
anything you can take it everything is
connected to everything else you could
go the other way with it and take social
democracy and move to the right instead
of the left the problem is these terms
and there's a whole bunch of other ones
they have no meaning in the United's
they they have no meaning because our
schools and ourselves we don't look into
anything outside of that acceptable nor
that narrative in the middle
Republicans and Democrats so this is all
that's allowed it's almost like it's a
one-party system if we want deep
systemic change in the United States we
might want to look into other
philosophies we might want to look into
other ideologies because right now we're
leaving a whole bunch of options on the
table just because we're afraid of the
terms we don't want to learn what they
mean we don't want to take that next
step and try to evolve I think that if
we're gonna get anywhere we've got to
break free of Republicans and Democrats
and the policies that they espouse will
those are the extremes because they're
not they're both center-right and
there's really I know being in the
United States and being in this system
when we look at it we act like you know
there's this massive gulf between the
two and if you're caught in that gulf
and you're one of the people who is
being directly impacted by that that
divide yeah yeah it definitely seems
like one is definitely better than the
other but there are a whole bunch of
other options on the table
and I really think we need to start
looking into some of them to get some
better at least understanding and if you
are a right winger if you're one of the
right wingers that watch this channel if
you look into this stuff you'll at least
understand where they're coming from and
I will tell you right now most
the hillbillies and rednecks that watch
this if you actually looked into
communism
you're not gonna agree with everything
you won't but you're gonna agree with a
whole lot more of it than you think you
will especially you guys that are all
about power to the county y'all are
pretty much companies to be honest y'all
just don't know it
there's a there's a lot of people who
describe themselves as something that
really believes something else but they
want to stay within that narrative they
want to stay within that allowed that
allowed spectrum of discussion get out
of it don't be afraid of it
get out of it Republicans and Democrats
they have had a very very long run and
those policies have had a very long run
in the United States and here we are
we might need some fresh ideas there's
no reason to be afraid of ideas anyway
it's just a thought I have a good night